in earlier videos I talked about the
things that are up to us and the things
that are not up to us in this video I
want to go a bit deeper into how we
approach life by a powerful yet
dangerous tool in our toolbox our
judgment
[Music]
first of all Thank You Jacob
and thank you Daniel for supporting me
on patreon I appreciate it guys now
let's talk about stoicism have you ever
asked yourself this question what do I
truly control in this world well the
truth is that a number of things that
are up to us is surprisingly small and
does not exceed the confines of our own
actions
one thing that is up to us is our
ability to judge life consists of a
series of events that aren't inherently
good or bad this could be a fried egg a
traffic jam and a plate of fried rice
somewhere in Asia nevertheless people
seem to be overly judgmental these days
judgment makes reality good or bad
desirable or undesirable fun or boring
at etc thus by our judgments we
categorize the universe which defines
our position towards it the problem with
judgment is that we will prefer some
things over other things strong
preferences and strong dis preferences
generate cravings and aversion which are
both potential sources of misery Marcus
Aurelius said about this and I quote you
take things you don't control and define
them as good or bad and so of course
when bad things happen or the good ones
don't you blame the gods and feel hatred
for the people responsible or those you
decide to make responsible and quote an
example our minds conclude that money is
necessary to survive in this world so we
make sure we have enough of it however
our judgment towards money might result
in the opinion that wealth is good and
poverty is bad
thus we start craving money which makes
us greedy I've experienced this myself
when I was hung up on cryptocurrencies
two years ago when a market went up my
mood went up but when the market went
down my mood went down as soon as I
realized the vicious cycle I was in and
made an effort to detach myself from it
a version is the other side of the same
Bitcoin but
intended if we for example averse
poverty will not only spend our lives
avoiding it if fate decides that we
become poor we become absolutely
miserable the problem is that both
wealth and poverty aren't up to us
therefore judging one as good and one as
bad will make us chasing the one and
avoiding the other this means that we
live our lives in fear and worry and be
miserable when the things we averse
overcome us and when the things we crave
for don't I know that non judgement is a
difficult thing to do
personally reminding myself that
whatever I pursue I do not control the
outcome has helped me to regain my peace
of mind
in times of worry this stoic mind heck
is called amor fati and I made a video
about it
so how should we judge Marcus Aurelius
proposes this and I quote much of our
bad behavior stems from trying to apply
those criteria if we limited good and
bad to our own actions we'd have no call
to challenge God or to treat other
people as enemies and quote to harvest
the power of judgment we should judge
ourselves Stoics aim to live virtuously
because virtue leads to happiness self
judgment means that we evaluate our own
actions and decide if they indeed are
aligned with nature this way we can use
our judgment to learn what we did wrong
and make better choices in the future
simply put don't judge what isn't up to
us judge what is if you want to see more
videos about stoicism please check out
my playlist thank you for watching
[Music]
you